this episode stupid musician text is
brought to you by district kid get your
music online and out to the world hey
everybody how's it going welcome to
stupid musician texts the show where we
peel back the auto-tune and computer
enhancement to look at what's really
going on in the music business hey man
do you know if or when you can come over
to record doing any retiring do you need
to grow up all right I want to make this
perfectly clear if your significant
other keeps you from following your
dreams takes your phone away and then
demands that you grow up and get a real
job then it's time to upgrade to a new
model I mean do you really want to crawl
into bed with that the rest of your life
best you chew your own arm off and make
a break for it I was thinking 175 ish
per song I was thinking holy P we don't
have the kind of cash for that for just
a song any Daniel Danny chance or are we
going in dry I just asked my mom for the
money from my band's account and she
doesn't want need to do this so I'm not
allowed to record with you she thinks I
can get a studio for cheaper ha ha ha
she's not very well-versed in this
business sorry guys your mom why is she
handling band funds exactly because she
set up the account we go to her for any
financial decisions because that's what
she does for a living she thinks there's
another way to go about this that
doesn't cost as much hey mom unless your
kid's name is Stacy or Glen dancing
please stay the [ __ ] out of your son's
bands business it's just not very rock
and roll hey guys we got a gig this week
well that's if my mom says we can play
it things that were never ever heard at
a Motorhead practice and it's just not
the moms that are too cheap either is
this paid now truck just lyrics this is
free I don't pay for lyrics lyrics
shouldn't be paid why shouldn't they
this only takes a couple of minutes to
write it and it's just words beat should
be paid for it I'm not paying you're
ignorant if it's so easy then why don't
you just write your own words ever
thought of that and for your information
it doesn't take just a couple of minutes
at least for me because I actually care
about the words that are being written
hey man do something I can't do
I'm not Pig sounds like a recipe for
success and hey folks if you're starting
a band the first thing you need to know
on your road to success is you actually
have to show up
we're setting up at twelve at my house
awesome I'll be there
we're getting started I'll be over in a
little bit around one change the plans
I'll be there around 1:30 1:45 I gotta
go watch my sister's soccer game okay
change of plans again I'll be there
around 2:45 ish the game ends at 2:30
I'm on my way over now and they wonder
why it's so difficult to make it in
music maybe start with prioritizing your
music career my sister has a soccer game
it's not a valid excuse for being late
for practice you dope now here's a
really interesting one from a Toronto
metal form I just like to say on behalf
of all my fellow Canadians I apologize
for this [ __ ]
anyone know how to record through a pot
HD trying to use the onboard preset
tones no external cab just yet tried
recording through USB into audacity and
repr but I get a static will pay cash if
you can help me tour it the right doc
maybe it's cap some software and
properly setup the hard line [ __ ]
tutorial proved useless not looking to
achieve amazing perfect studio quality
[ __ ] just need to have a medium for
recording musical ideas and making
complete songs also [ __ ] six line
[ __ ]
wait so you'll pay someone to procure it
for you but you won't just buy the damn
program yourself because wait five
hundred dollars for laggy junk that will
be obsolete zero plus six years is equal
to $50 one time time to pay more
attention and mad son also we live in
Canada kiss my deck FBI we're all the
smart Alec's we live in anyways Reaper
is already there so the concern is how
to get that crap working properly you
got Moxie kid you'll go far in this
business let me know when you have an
album so I can torrent this [ __ ] out of
it
hold up there mr. virtue signaler I got
your anal Vaseline you asked for the
purpose of the recordings here is for
personal use to remember song ideas not
to release an album
I've heard of studios I'll charge ever
put your bands just $50 a son when I
need it done well in proper exam I'll
pay for that service and that service
only and last I checked bands that makes
most of their money through during
streaming on March not CD sales before
they had kiss my [ __ ] people like you
are exactly why I accepted Christ and Oh
have fun with your underpowered [ __ ]
that's right because you spent all your
money on disabled - smart ass go
practice your chops and then maybe
you'll have something people want to
hear
hold up there mr. virtue signaler people
like you are why I accepted Christ huh
not only are you too stupid to record
guitars apparently you've never deduced
what the word irony means but I must
admit you are doing the popular
Christian thing claim to fall a set of
beliefs and then completely ignore them
whenever they become inconvenient all
right everybody this episode is
sponsored by district kid the service to
put your music out to online retailers
like iTunes Amazon Google Play and
Spotify plus over 150 smaller online
music retailers as well it only costs 20
bucks a year and you keep a hundred
percent of your earnings district it
also has lots of cool features including
instant verification on Spotify and
change your image on Apple music and
iTunes what's more is that they let you
add credits and liner notes to stores
and streaming services you can outlets
musicians contact info social media
profiles and hundreds of other roles
they've also got the team's function
which allows you to split your earnings
automatically among your band mates and
a cover song license only cost 12 bucks
a year I use district kid to pump my
music out and my friends do as well it
is a great service that is totally worth
checking out go to district kid comm
slash VIP slash Specter today and grab
yourself a 7% discount follow the link
in the description below now back to the
show
okay everybody we've got a brand new
feature here on stupid musician txt
troll or not you guys tell me if you
think this is real I'm not even that
much of a fanboy but you don't know what
it's like to be an aspiring prog metal
instrumental act these days I worked
really hard saying that I would get a
job so that my parents would buy me an
axe FX 3 and I got them to get superior
drummers 2 and 3 and G DD as well I
practice production on reefer for 3
whole weeks and when I posted my first
single on the jet Facebook group for
which I had professional artwork done
for $250 it only got 2 likes and the
first comment said the mix was trash you
know what [ __ ] you all you don't
understand the passion dedication and
energy that goes into writing prog metal
instrumental music I mean just listen to
how my custom boutique guitar sounds
with whatever pickups at tosin Abasi is
currently using the melodic melodies
right themselves no music is too dark
too heavy but no when you hear anything
more melodic than periphery none of you
want it you just don't get it you just
aren't ready for it I'm hearing what all
the other instrumental guitarists are
doing and I have what all of them have
and more take your animals as leaders
take your plenty take your intervals
take your Sean take your politia take
that [ __ ] wave guitars whatever his
name is
you can [ __ ] keep him you're missing
out on the next big thing I'm a lot of
progressive metal instrumentals and
you're all so [ __ ] dumb for it
especially laughing as I type this I
have the gear I have the talent and
creativity and I actually play with feel
I was going to bring back true emotion
to guitar playing will taking it to the
next level technically but I guess
you'll never hear it
enjoy your second-rate instrumental acts
enjoy your soundcloud rappers and join
missing out on the freshest take on
instrumental guitar just because you
don't appreciate the blood sweat and
tears it goes inge up three weeks of
learning how to mix I'm [ __ ] done
take your two legs and shove them up
your [ __ ] yeah I know what you're
thinking there is no possible way this
could be real this has to be a troll
until you start remembering a few of the
local bands that you've played O's you
know the ones that let everyone know
that they were going to be the next big
thing and generally treated everyone
they ever will share the stage with like
pond scum you guys know exactly the
band's I mean the ones that talked a big
game and went absolutely nowhere so even
if that last piece was fiction it's a
little too close to the reality we've
all dealt with now the common theme on
this show is musicians are cheap
bastards we all know it and these text
messages merely verify it but this one
is a little more unique extreme
genre-bending band looking for second
guitarist Lynn Massachusetts hi there
I'm not that good at playing guitar but
I've got great gear and I've got enough
money that I can fund the entire band
the caveat I need to beat the lead
guitarist let it oh that's cool so you
want to be the lead guitarist despite
not being that good of a guitarist yeah
I'm gonna have to give you a hard pass
we want Sona has chops not someone
looking to buy his way to a gig
take my advice lock yourself in a room
and woodshed until you're great
instrument best of luck I hear you dude
what do this way I will be putting one
100% on the bills so yes I'd want to be
the lead guitar all the bills new van
got busts done gear done
yeah that's the hard no come back to me
when you can play it or not looking to
indulge your ego we're looking for
someone that's not afraid of doing both
rhythm and lead guitar I hear you bro
practically I'm looking to buy myself a
band for shits and giggles it might not
be for you I respect that but if you
know someone you know rock on I gotta
admit I'm a little on the fence about
that one I mean musical integrity is
great no but that guy was willing to pay
for a tour bus I mean if he had money
maybe insist that he take lessons what
do you guys think and at the other end
of the spectrum here's a conversation
that I'm sure many of us have dealt with
in one way or another I've definitely
saved the best for last on this episode
check this one out
hello my dude do you provide mixing
services yeah I do how many songs were
you thinking five song EP
okay what genre of music and what
instruments are in the songs rock music
with drums bass and vocals guitar cool I
can do that
my rates are $40 an hour what you can
mix all five songs in an hour I was
thinking more $10 per song ten dollars
per song is literally two dollars an
hour if I'm lucky a fully mixed songs
usually takes five hours and because I'm
still studying and not going to charge
you time and a half for callbacks after
the first mix to fully mix an EP it will
take me four to five hours if I'm lucky
it ends up being $200 per song not ten
dollars per song what the [ __ ] are you
insane you're still studying so you
shouldn't be asking for money at all I
was nice enough to come to you to mix my
stuff but I could have gotten to anyone
I want a fully mixed and mastered EP by
next Tuesday and I'll be generous and
throw you a hundred dollars twenty
dollars per song look I'm sorry but I
cannot afford to do a full EP for a
hundred dollars and now you want it
mastered - that takes more time other
engineers would honestly be charging
upwards of 60 dollars an hour to mix on
top of that you want it in five days if
I literally stop doing everything and
worked 100% on this I might be able to
get to the EP by then but you would have
to have the first mixes only there's no
time to change anything I'm also
recording mixing and mastering a
five-track EP from my university project
so I can't afford to stop doing
everything to work 100% on your ap if
you want it mixed and mastered by me you
can pay me $40 an hour and I'll get it
to you in two weeks minimum this is
including any changes you want as I will
send you mixes as I complete them so you
can give me any changes you want and
also I am a recording and mixing
engineer I can master you stuff if you
really want to but I have to put more
time into learning recording and mixing
so I would suggest seeking out a
mastering engineer to do your mastering
[ __ ] off cut don't speak like that to
one of your clients you are charging way
too much you should just be happy I'm
even talking to you just do it for the
exposure I would if I was doing your job
you aren't grateful pieces yet then why
don't you because I don't
the time plus your stuff isn't that good
anyway so why the [ __ ] are you asking
you for $40 per [ __ ] hour what and
you think I have the time if you don't
like my stuff take your EP somewhere
else then I am talking to you because
you need me you need it [ __ ] relax
and charge a more reasonable rate then I
will send you my music and you can mix
it by Tuesday okay you are right I
should charge a more reasonable price to
work with you how does $80 an hour sound
because I'll need the extra money for
this headache working with you will give
me
I don't even mention that I'd want to
deposit and you still insulted me and
complain about my prices I suggest
taking your work somewhere else and
learning that you have to pay someone
else for their time because you're going
to have a hard time finding someone
who'll spend time mixing your stuff
properly for $10 a song I only [ __ ]
insulted you because you judge too much
you could be the next bog rock if you
mix my stuff think of how many bands
would want you then if I was going to be
the next blob rock I would be getting
paid for my work and I wouldn't be
working for artists that treat me like
you have please take your work somewhere
else or come back to me when you're
willing to pay my rates let me complete
your mixes in a reasonable time and when
you don't have an attitude dude you can
like be the next Bob Rock of all you do
this job for pennies think of all the
exposure you'll get yep I'm sure his mom
and his immediate friends would
certainly be impressed unfortunately
that's not exactly gonna pay the bills
now is it if somebody has a skill that
you value suck it up and pay for you
cheap [ __ ] alright that's it for this
episode be sure to check out district
kid and if you liked the video leave a
comment below and please share it with
your friends and if you've got some
awesome screen caps of a truly stupid
conversation follow the link in the
description below and you just might see
it on the show
so you can embarrass your friends until
next time hasa diga oh boy
[Music]
just do it for the exposure
I would if I was doing your job you are
grateful pieces yet I only [ __ ]
insulted you because you charge too much
you could be the next Bob rocket